And, uh,
Dana is my son.
And the beautiful piano players my wife
I'm a very blessed man.
And I know what all of you are thinking right now.
At this very moment.
You're thinking
Wasn't that guy just here in April?
what's he doing back so soon
you know when i saw.
Oh, we can't do that. It'
ah came out this morning and it was ah.
A little wet outside you guys getting rain at your house
Well, I tell you, I got a lot of mine.
i was raised in south dakota and i used to commute back and forth from south dakota to where i went to college in tulsa, oklahoma.
And, uh,
I used to drive through Missouri all the time. Drive through St. Joseph and down through and down through Joplin and
That was...
Before the interstates
Early 70s so like I said in the early service
I know there's some people in here. I can remember the early 70s. There's some people in here probably weren't around in the early
But I always thought Missouri was a very beautiful place. I never dreamed that we'd be living here.
When i started was very beautiful but i didn't realize it got so much rain
Actually get more rain here than do in Seattle.
I don't know if you guys knew that don't don't move away right away don't move to seattle for a drier
but uh
Yeah.
It's certainly beautiful.
Pastor Eric asked me to speak this morning, and it's one of those...
Uh,
Unanswerable mysteries of the universe as a why, but.
I'm here and it's an honor to speak to you.
you know chuck colson who is the founder of.
Present fellowship said.
Most professing Christians today don't know what they believe.
And so they can either understand it
Nor defendant.
Much less live it.
If we contrast that with 1 Peter,
315 where he said we should always be ready to give a defense to everyone who asks us for reason.
For the hope that lies within us.
You can see the problem.
We have a
A real conundrum.
So I'll talk to you this morning about
Fundamental truth of the Bible, what I believe to be is the fundamental truth of the Bible.
But before we do that
I'd like to pray just for a minute
Heavenly Father, I ask you to be here with us.
I ask you to open your word to us.
And I ask you to open up our hearts to you.
Put your truth deep within us.
I ask you to continue. I continue to ask you to pray for Pastor Eric that he would, uh,
Recover 100 percent
Be back 100%.
I ask this in Jesus' name.
So,
We had two scriptures that we had this morning.
first genesis four four.
Were able was bringing.
A sacrifice before God.
And says Abel brought the firstborn to the flock.
And of their fat.
And the Lord respected Abel.
And his offering.
And then Revelation 19:13 where it says,
He was clothed in a robe dipped in blood.
And his name was called the Word of God.
So what do these two scriptures have in common?
One is that
Almost the beginning of the Bible, one's almost to the end of the Bible.
Well, they both reference sacrificial blood.
One is by inference indirectly and the one is direct.
As we study the Bible,
It becomes clear.
That there is no concept
No thought.
No single scriptural idea.
From Genesis to the Revelation,
Which is more constantly or more prominently brought to view?
Than that expressed by the words of the blood.
So,
um.
I want to look this morning at some quick Old Testament references and what Jesus himself said about the blood.
we can't look at everything because
If you go into the Old Testament, New Testament, what Jesus said, what the apostles taught, what it says in Revelation about the blood,
There's over 450 references, so this is a long study.
at least 10, 12 hours. And as I told the first service, we'll only get through about half of it this morning.
So
Let's go back to Genesis, but let's go even farther back than Abel.
Let's go back to where Adam and Eve were expelled from the garden.
When this happened,
There was a blood sacrifice.
The Bible says that God fashioned
Clothes for them, tunics out of skins.
To fashion this, there had to have been a sacrifice.
This is the first recorded death.
in the Bible.
And this death occurred and blood was shed.
by God's own hand.
Then the sacrifice of Abel.
Or it says he brought the firstborn in the fat.
Well,
There can't be fat without blood.
I can tell you that.
This is the first recorded act of worship in the Bible.
And blood was shed.
Some centuries later,
We had the flood.
No.
we know this is god's judgment upon sin.
And upon the earth.
But there was a new earth, a new earth that was brought forth immediately afterwards.
and the first thing noah did.
Was that he?
Built an altar.
Made a sacrifice.
Shed blood.
And the Bible specifically says that God was pleased.
And we move on to the story of Abraham and Isaac.
We all know the story.
God had entered already entered into a covenant relationship with Adam by the, or excuse me, with Abraham by the time he had to.
Isaac,
But the story says that Isaac had to die and Abraham had to offer him on the sacrifice, or sacrifice him on the altar.
But we all know that a ram was sacrificed and again blood was shed.
Well, four hundred years later,
We now have Isaac, who has become the people of Israel.
And they're in bondage in Egypt. they're in slavery.
And again, we know the story.
The bondage would be delivered.
But it would not be without blood.
Some fifty days later,
We're in the Sinai in the desert.
Israel reached this place,
And God was now giving his law,
Has a basis for his covenant with the people.
and had to be established, but as Paul says in Hebrews 9:7, it would not be without blood.
By the law, the blood had to be sprinkled first on the altar.
And then on the book of the Covenant.
which was represented God's portion of the covenant.
And then,
directly on the people with the spoken declaration. This is the covenant.
The blood of the covenant.
Exodus 24:8 says that Moses took the blood
And sprinkle it on the people saying,
This is the blood of the covenant.
That the Lord has made with you in accordance with these words.
Well, with the coming of Christ,
And old things pass away and things become new.
But we still have the blood.
The blood is there Jesus
declared that his death on the cross
Was the purpose for which he came, he told Pilate.
In a legal proceeding
that this is the purpose for which i came into the world.
His death.
He clearly stated on multiple occasions that his death,
The shedding of his blood was absolutely necessary.
So the scriptures
seem to indicate that God has an obsession with blood.
Christianity has taken a lot of criticism over the centuries for being a bloody religion.
With its emphasis on the blood and blood sacrifices
Fact, even today, in modern Christian circles,
Speaking of the blood is not really very acceptable.
It's not very cultured. it's not very.
sophisticated. It's just not where we're at today.
It offends a lot of people.
But I want to look back at each one of these stories in the Old Testament.
And look at what it tells us.
Each one of these stories.
In the case of Abel,
Hebrews says it was by faith.
That Abel offered,
A sacrifice
And his name is listed
in the list of what the Bible calls believers. Not only is it listed, but he's the first in the list. Not Adam, not Eve,
But able.
The first enlisted believers.
The witness witness was born to him that he pleased God in his sacrifice.
So we find out that Abel's faith
and God's pleasure.
God's
Acceptance.
Are closely tied together with the sacrifice of blood.
In Noah,
We have a new beginning, and again,
As with Abel,
It was not without blood.
And the Bible specifically tells us
That God was pleased.
With Noah's sacrifice.
In Abraham, we know his faith had already been tested and tried several times.
But in the case with Isaac,
He had to learn that Isaac,
Who was the son of the promise?
who wholly belong to God.
Could only truly be sacrificed to him or surrendered to him, excuse me.
Through death.
And this was not some
arbitrary command from God.
This is a divine revelation of truth.
That in this world it's only through death
That a life that is truly consecrated to God can be possible.
but it was impossible for isaac to die.
And rise again.
So the ram was provided.
So they learned in this particular case
To through a substitution of blood.
Isaac would live.
So the blood that was shed that day on Mount Moriah,
Allowed Isaac.
And all the people who descended from him,
To live before God.
Now we go to Egypt.
And in Egypt, we find,
That the lesson that was learned by one man, Isaac,
Now had to be learned by an entire nation.
The blood that was sprinkled on the door frames and on the lens of the door,
Which established the first Passover.
And created an enduring ordinance
When God said,
When I see the blood,
I will pass over you.
And those words that God said,
To the Israelites,
In the Sinai,
Still,
are in effect today.
When I see the blood.
I will pass over you.
The people were taught,
That life in God
For them,
Could only occur
Through a substitute of blood.
And on the sign of the blood of the covenant had its foundation
The blood was in the found was the power of the foundation of foundation of the covenant sorry
It's by blood alone that God and man can be brought into.
Covenant relationship
This was foreshadowed in Eden.
It was foreshadowed on Ararat,
It was foreshadowed on Mount Moriah,
Again, Egypt.
And is now confirmed in Sinai in a very solemn way.
You see,
Without blood, there's no access by sinful man.
To a holy God.
There's a marked difference in the application, though.
And eaten
God shed the blood.
and gave the skins to adam and eve.
Almah-mariah,
When the ram was slain for Isaac,
The blood was poured on the altar.
In Egypt, it was sprinkled on the doorposts of cells.
but in sinai it was sprinkled directly on the people.
The contact in the application of the blood is becoming more powerful.
And more personal.
Jesus' words in the New Testament confirm everything in the Old Testament and the Old Testament offerings.
And that is that a man can live only through.
And before God, only through the death of another.
And thus he can obtain a life,
That through resurrection.
Is eternal.
But even Jesus himself could not make us partakers in that.
In that eternal life, without the shedding of his own blood.
The marvelous fact is that eternal life
in God through Christ,
Can be had by each one of us.
But only through blood.
Now, when I use the word blood,
A lot of people think of death and gore.
And that's what the world wants.
It's not by.
It's not by. Yeah.
By activists, it's by design.
But blood should not be equated with death.
Rather, the Bible teaches us that sin
Should be equated with death.
James 1:14:15 says, "But each one is tempted when he is drawn away by his own evil desires."
And enticed.
And when desire is conceived,
He gives birth to sin.
And sin when it is fully grown.
Brings forth death.
It's only blood that can reverse this.
The only act that can resuscitate something that is in death
Is to infuse it with life.
Leviticus 17:11 is very clear.
For the life of the flesh is in the blood.
And I have given it to you to make atonement for your souls.
So even as far back as Leviticus,
We can see that God was beginning to tell his people.
About the blood of Christ.
In the synagogue in Capernaum,
Jesus said no less than four times when he's talking to people.
About his life, his death, and the blood.
He said first,
In John 3 and excuse me, John 6, he says,
Except you drink my blood, you have no life in you.
He that drinketh my blood hath everlasting life.
My blood is life indeed.
He that drinketh my blood,
Dwelleth in me,
And I in him.
And in John 10:10, he said, I have come so they may have life,
And have it more abundantly.
Hmm
So,
So we find that according to the scriptures,
Blood equals life.
And death.
Equals sin.
If we substitute the two words,
Blood and life sin and death
If you do this when you read the Bible,
You'll read the Bible in a whole different way.
For example,
Hebrews 9:22 says,
Everything is purified with blood, and without blood there is no forgiveness of sin.
If we substitute the words, it says,
Everything is purified with life.
And without life,
There is no forgiveness.
From death.
So,
Thank you.
What does the blood do for us today?
Well, the first and foremost thing,
is it provides us forgiveness.
Ephesians 1:7 says,
In him we have redemption.
Through his blood.
The forgiveness of sins
According to his riches and glory.
Redemption.
Forgiveness.
Through his blood.
Christ had a special way of explaining this to his disciples and us during the Last Supper when he told them.
This is my blood.
Of the covenant.
Which is poured out
For the forgiveness.
Of sins
Forgiveness, one.
Secondly,
Were progressively cleansed.
Through the blood of Christ.
Hebrews 13:12 tells us that Jesus also suffered.
In order to sanctify the people
Through his own blood.
See, God is continually calling us to a life of holiness.
And a life without sin, and that can only be done through the blood.
Without holiness, no one will see the Lord, according to Hebrews 12.
It's through the blood.
A couple of months ago, we had a Bible study in here. It was taught with Ephesians. In the book of Ephesians, it was taught by Danah. Very good study.
The book of Ephesians is a tremendous study.
and how the righteousness and holiness of God becomes ours.
And is attributed to us.
Through the blood.
But it's only through Jesus Christ.
Third, and this has always been a hard one for me,
Our consciences are cleansed.
Many people when they come to christ
Have a hard time with
Dealing with their prior life.
But,
To not understand this is also not to believe the word of God. So Hebrews 4:9-14 says,
How much more were the blood of Christ,
Who, through the eternal Spirit offered himself,
Who offered himself without blemish to God.
Purify our consciences.
From dead works to serve the living God.
What an amazing promise this is in Christ.
that he can cleanse our consciences.
From acts that lead to death.
This is just amazing to me.
Fourth,
We gain bold access to God in prayer and in worship.
The Bible is very clear that we're alienated from God from sin. We're separated.
It's the blood of Christ that allows us to draw near.
That means even the very best person in this room.
The very best of us.
Cannot really access God directly.
Outside of the blood.
Hebrews ten nineteen says,
We have confidence to enter into the holy places.
By the blood of Jesus.
Ephesians 2:13 says,
Now in Christ Jesus,
You, who were once far off,
Have been made nearer.
By the blood of Christ.
So it's because of the blood of Christ that we have the incredible privilege,
of going to God in prayer.
Casting our cares on him.
Asking for the things that our heart desperately needs.
Any time.
Any place.
Fifth,
Were able to conquer.
The accuser of the brethren.
Revelation 12:11 says,
And they have conquered him.
meaning satan.
By the blood of the lamb, and by the word of their testimony.
For they loved not their lives even unto death.
It's because of Christ's sacrifice that we can trust in the righteousness.
He is righteous and not our own when we are accused by the enemy.
We know
That our deeds
You know, I think I'm missing something here.
um.
No, I'm not. sorry. I'm just
Nervous.
Yeah.
We know that our deeds
are as filthy rags, but Christ's righteousness attribute us.
Charles Spurgeon,
Who was the great theologian and preacher in the early part of the century.
like 1800s.
Said this.
In talking about
Being able to conquer the enemy.
I know what the devil will say to you.
He will say to you, you're a sinner
Well,
Tell him you know you are.
But for all that,
You are justified.
He will tell you the greatness of your sin.
Tell him of the greatness of Christ's righteousness.
He will tell you of all your mishaps.
Your backslidings, your offenses, and your wanderings.
Tell him?
And tell your own conscience,
that you know all that.
But Jesus Christ came to save sinners.
And that although your sin be great,
Christ is quite able to put it all away.
John Newton, who was the?
Author of the
song Amazing Grace who was the ex-slaver who
transported slaves across the Atlantic and
came to Christ and became a pastor said
I am a great sinner.
But Jesus Christ is a great redeemer.
And lastly, I think we're rescued from a futile life.
And a sinful way of life
1 Peter 1.18 says, And the Lord said
You were ransomed.
Or purchased.
From the futile ways inherited from your forefathers.
Not with perishable things such as silver and gold,
But with the precious blood of Christ,
Like that of a lamb without spot or blemish.
Compared to the
Precious blood of Christ, the most valuable things on earth.
Wealth.
Power, fame,
They're all meaningless.
That is because of this single foundational truth of the Bible.
And that is that the innocent blunt of Jesus Christ,
Shed on Calvary.
Was done to bring each one of us life.
Physical life,
Spiritual life.
Eternal life.
The blood of Jesus Christ gives believers
Salvation for their souls.
Forgiveness of sins.
Access to God.
The power to live a clear conscience
And the ability to live in victory.
And all of these can be had.
In him.
God's intention,
For in his emphasis on blood is not gory and it's not perverse.
That's a deliberate distortion by the world.
God's intention for all those things is solely for the purposes of restoring life in him.
Everything he did.
Everything he's done
is to restore life in him.
Do you remember in the beginning when I talked about how the blood was shed on the ground?
And then it was poured on the altar.
And then it was
Put over the doorposts.
And then it was sprinkled on the people themselves.
Revelation 7:14 tells us when John was talking to the angel,
In the revelation of the christ
He said, Who are these? John said, Sir, you know them.
And the angel said,
These are the ones who have come out of the great tribulation.
They have washed their robes and made them white.
In the blood of the lamb.
So we've gone from
The ground,
The sprinkling on the altar
To the door posts
To the people.
To washing her robes in the blood of the lamb.
So one day,
Every person here is going to stand before God.
And I think the question is going to be just like the words of the old hymn.
Have you been to Jesus for the cleansing power?
Are you fully trusting in his grace this hour?
Are you washed?
In the blood.
of the Lamb.
Are you walking by the Savior's side?
Do you rest each moment in the crucified?
Are you washed in the blood of the lamb?
When the Savior comes,
Will your robes be white?
Are you washed?
In the blood.
Of lamb.
Heavenly Father,
Thank you so much for this time.
Thank you for your word.
I just pray that it speaks to our hearts, Lord.
Ask you to be in the heart of every person here, Lord.
Ask us in Jesus' name.
If there's anyone that wants to talk to me after the service, I'd be honored. I'd say no, would Pastor Eric or Dana or any of the praise team.
Thank you very much.